Networks benefit
from having rules.
Rules ensure that data sent over
the network gets to
the right place.
These rules are known
as network protocols.
Network protocols are a set of
rules used by two
or more devices on
a network to describe
the order of
delivery and the
structure of the data.
Let's use a scenario
to demonstrate
a few different types
of network protocols
and how they work
together on a network.
Say you want to access your
favorite recipe website.
You go to the address
bar at the top of
your browser and type in
the website's address.
For example:
www.yummyrecipesforme.org.
Before you gain access
to the website,
your device will establish
communications
with a web server.
That communication
uses a protocol called
the Transmission Control
Protocol, or TCP.
TCP is an internet communications
protocol that allows
two devices to form a
connection and stream data.
TCP also verifies both devices
before allowing any further
communications to take place.
This is often referred
to as a handshake.
Once communication is established
using a TCP handshake,
a request is made
to the network.
Using our example,
we have requested
data from the Yummy
Recipes For Me server.
Their servers will respond
to that request and send
data packets back to
your device so that you
can view the web page.
As data packets move
across the network,
they move between network
devices such as routers.
The Address Resolution
Protocol, or ARP, is used to
determine the MAC address of
the next router or
device on the path.
This ensures that the data
gets to the right place.
Now the communication has been
established and the
destination device is known,
it's time to access the
Yummy Recipes For Me website.
The Hypertext Transfer
Protocol Secure, or HTTPS, is
a network protocol that
provides a secure method of
communication between
client and website servers.
It allows your web browser
to securely send a request
for a webpage to the Yummy
Recipes For Me server
and receive a webpage
as a response.
Next comes a protocol called the
Domain Name System, or DNS,
which is a network
protocol that translate
internet domain names
into IP addresses.
The DNS protocol sends
the domain name and
the web address to
a DNS server that retrieves
the IP address of the website
you were trying to access,
in this case, Yummy
Recipes For Me.
The IP address is included
as a destination address for
the data packets traveling to
the Yummy Recipes
For Me web server.
So just by visiting one website,
the device on your networks are
using four different protocols:
TCP, ARP, HTTPS, and DNS.
These are just some
of the protocols
used in network communications.
To help you learn more about
the different protocols,
we'll discuss them further
in an upcoming course material.
But how do these protocols
relate to security?
Well, on the Yummy Recipes
For Me website example,
we used HTTPS, which is
a secure protocol that
requests a webpage
from a web server.
HTTPS encrypts data using
the Secure Sockets Layer and
Transport Layer Security,
otherwise known as SSL/TLS.
This helps keep the
information secure from
malicious actors who want to
steal valuable information.
That's a lot of information and
a lot of protocols to remember.
Throughout your career
as a security analyst,
you'll become more familiar with
network protocols and use them
in your daily activities.